>> Steve: Like I said before,
we kinda saw this slide a second ago.
But the other one that were
not covered here is this idea
of man-in-the-middle attacks.
This is, again, someone in the middle
sniffing the network traffic.
Luckily, this is easy,
and we'll talk about it.
Could you get a cert from
Let's Encrypt and localhost?
Yeah, but ideally, most of your
production environments, right,
if you use Vercel or
whatever on a small app,
you have HTTPS, unless you somehow
find a way to opt out of it.
If you do not see it, most browsers
get really mean about not having it.
This is luckily either, again, if I had
a big company, had an infrastructure
team and a security team, yeah,
you probably have your own servers.
A smaller thing, I would say that rolling
and stuff yourself, you can do it,
maybe you shouldn't, right?
But if you choose, that's great.
I will say, just as an aside,
there are apps out there.
There's one called Charles that runs
on Mac OS and iOS, which is super cool,
where you can man-in-the-middle yourself,
right?
You're like, why would I want
to man-in-the-middle myself?
You know how I was saying the browser's
great cuz you can sniff all
the network traffic?
You could theoretically
install one of these apps and
then open up whatever iOS app or Android
app and expose the hidden APIs, right?
So even going like, my APIs are hidden
cuz I work on a native app,
they're not, right?
You're not off the hook just
cuz you have a mobile app.
Arguably, because the web
is such a big platform,
you are better protected on the web,
right?
You can sniff traffic and
man-in-the-middle.
It's the same idea of this
privilege escalation.
Maybe it's for other nefarious purposes or
your own research, ideally,
where you could go look at your own and
like, am I being mature here or not?
But also, if you're just trying to
figure out cheap United flights,
you could theoretically, I don't know.
I'm not finishing this story.
But it's a useful tool.
But some of these techniques are useful.
Okay, so the cookie attributes that we
saw before, HTTPOnly, again, I would say
your cookie should be HTTPOnly,
unless you have a real good reason not to.
And you might have a real
good reason not to.
For instance, maybe you have some
single-page application, right,
where you do need access to
that token from JavaScript.
Yeah, well,
that's why we have multiple ways of
solving a lot of these issues, right?
And there are a ton of
different things you can do.
But you know you need it if you need it,
but
also maybe spend the time to
figure out how to just make it.
Cuz if you can access it from JavaScript,
anyone who can get JavaScript in there,
too, right, which we'll see later,
can do it as well.
So try your hardest.
Secure, I don't wanna hear this one,
yes, use HTTPS.
And then SameSite,
we will talk about momentarily.
But this is basically saying that, hey,
don't send the cookie unless
the request comes from one of my sites.
And we will talk about this.
I think it's important.
But I just kinda wanna spoil
it in advance a little bit,
which is there used to be SameSite none,
which was the default.
Then there was a strict,
which is you hate your users.
Cuz it means that if they
ever click on a link,
they're coming from somewhere else and
they're logged out, right?
Can you imagine someone
sends you a dank meme and
you're not logged in to Facebook or
X or Instagram?
You are logged in, but because you
didn't click on a link in there,
you're logged out again, right?
That stinks.
And then there's Lax,
which is kinda in the middle.
It used to be that if you
didn't set a SameSite one, and
we'll discuss it again in a second,
but you would set it to none.
In this case now, Chrome, all the
different browsers as of two years ago or
so will default to Lax,
which broke a lot of stuff, but
in the name of better security for
everyone.
So because people made this mistake a lot,
cuz we'll see all the different ways you
can also leak cookies later as well.
But on the SameSite attribute,
unfortunately because the Internet is
weird, as I said in the opening preamble
here, site and
origin are not the same thing, right?
And we'll have slides later on as well,
but origin,
remember, is that domain port and
protocol.
A site is the TLD, so com, net,
whatever, and one level up.
So subdomains are fair game,
right, in a lot of those, right?
There are exceptions,
which is you can register yourself
onto the public suffix list, right?
So cuz github.io, everyone's got
a subdomain before that, right?
So that actually counts as a TLD.
Probably, it's public.
There's literally on the slides
that's similar links to it.
Let's click and see what happens.
Yeah, the public suffix list,
I just gotta bring this tab over,
is an open source list where people can
go ahead and add themselves to it and
the browsers will respect it.
So I guess most popular
services like github.io.
I'm gonna guess vercel.app.
Anything where you can get
a subdomain.whatever.tld.
However, you're like, let me use some
funny new thing that might not be on here.
You have a risk that they're
not on the list, and
then you could leak cookies accidentally.
But generally speaking,
there are exceptions to this case as well.
All right, so we talked about injection
attacks and the definition of those.
So in conclusion,
the injection attacks that we kinda
saw with the example earlier.
The SQL injection,
there are a few other ones as well.
And I mentioned them while I was riffing.
Command injection, if you find yourself
shelling out, calling something in
Bash as part of your business logic, well,
you have a new attack surface, right?
The various escape characters,
there are libraries,
it's about sanitizing your input.
You can either choose to do it yourself,
you can use a library.
It's tricky.
I would say use the library
99% of the time,
unless it's really important and
you know what you're doing because
sometimes no one's read the entire
React code base, right?
No one's read the entire
Express code base.
You know what I mean?
Sometimes knowing exactly
how the code works and
being able to run your own test
suite against it is also important.
But 99% of the time, use the library.
So command injection, again,
they just escape, the shell.
And this is anytime you find yourself
calling, either a child process or any,
depending on your programming language.
I think Ruby and Python make it
shockingly easy to call shell commands.
I think backticks in Ruby is a shell
command instead of a quote, right?
And so that kinda stuff to make
sure that you're not doing it.
Command detection as well, yeah.
Here, we're gonna exec
a guarantee this is ls.
Someone could theoretically
put a semicolon at the end,
an rm -rf you, right?
This is an example, obviously,
that fits on a slide, but
the idea is exactly as we
saw in the SQL injection.
There are other forms of injection attacks
depending on the various things that
you're doing.
So every time I see somebody use Bash or
something,
especially deployments, but
also insecure, it's like you're what?
No, you don't need to.
If you truly need to, if there's
not even a node built in if you're
reading from the file system like that
ls example, there's a reader, right?
Use that, right, if you truly need to.
And I have things in my
code base where I do shell.
It's mostly scripts for generating types.
I'm not super worried about it and
they don't run in production.
Then you've got execFile where you can
do something, or sanitize the allowlist.
But every time you find
yourself calling out to Bash,
any time you find yourself using
data that you're getting in as code.
Understand that there's
an inherent risk there and
you're putting yourself
in the path of sadness.
The other one that I'm not gonna
talk about cuz it's kind of
unique is this idea of file
upload vulnerabilities.
I run a video processing site, and
it's the same thing, you don't check.
Let's say it's like, upload your image and
we resize it for you.
You know what you need to do?
Make sure it's an image.
[LAUGH] You know what I mean?
A file upload vulnerability.
Someone uploads either
a Windows executable.
They figure out you're running on
a Windows system, or some other file,
or some known bad payload that they know
that FFmpeg is guilty towards, right?
And then remote code execution is like,
yeah, you decided to use eval.
[LAUGH] And again,
now you opened yourself up to bad things
that can happen in JavaScript, right?
It's different flavors for the same thing.
But again, I could say, and
I did say don't do these things, but
sometimes you have to, right,
depending on what you're doing, right?
Sometimes if you are running
a video processing site,
you're gonna have to take file uploads and
process them.
If there are certain things that you
need to shell out for, do it, right?
Or you need to compile code and
evaluate it.
Sometimes these things exist cuz
they occasionally need to happen.
But again, know that these
are the surface areas for sadness, right?
And that in a lot of cases when we
look at cross-site scripting later,
there are known repositories
of just bad payloads.
And running those through your test
suite to make sure they do the thing you
think they're gonna do
is pretty important.
So yeah, we have remote code execution.
Don't use eval, function, exec.
If you're doing stuff with a DOM,
stuff like DOMPurify,
which we'll kinda talk about.
Or sandboxing stuff, putting in a Docker
container, depending on what you're doing,
all of those things apply.
They're a little bit
outside of the web stuff,
but generally speaking,
right, the same ideas.
Web security is just theoretically
a subset of security.
General good security
practices take effect.